                   JAVA notes

1.Every java prgm has class

2.Access modifier-"public","private"

3. Constructor Invocation:
Definition: Constructors are special methods that are called when an object is instantiated.
Purpose: They initialize the object's state.

4.Static Initializers:
Definition: Static blocks are used for initializing static variables or performing startup operations when the class is first loaded.
Purpose: They are executed automatically when the class is loaded.

5.In a Class:

If you see a method with no return type and it matches the class name, it is a constructor.
If the method does not match the class name or has a return type (even if it’s void), it’s a method.
{
Constructors are special methods with the same name as the class, no return type, and are used for initializing objects.
Methods must have a return type and are used to define the behaviors of the class.
}

6.Why we need to use static
Static main Method: The main method must be static because it needs to be called by the JVM without creating an instance of the class.
Class-Level Execution: By making main static, you ensure that it can be executed directly from the class level, simplifying the program's startup process.

7.
Variables are used generally in all parts of a program.
Attributes are specific to classes and objects in OOP.

8
char is a primitive data type in Java, unlike String which is an object.
Primitive data types include int, char, boolean, float, double, long, short, and byte

9.
 In Java, the static keyword is used to indicate that a method or variable belongs to the class itself, rather than to instances of the class. This means you can call a static method without creating an object of the 
class. Here’s why rand(int len) is defined as static in your code
If you want to call a method without marking it as static, you need to create an instance of the class that contains the method. This is because non-static methods (also called instance methods) belong to instances of the class

10.
Why Each Part is Necessary:
Public: Ensures the Java runtime can access and execute the method.
Static: Allows the method to be called without creating an instance of the class.
Void: Indicates that the method does not return a value.
Main: The specific name recognized by the Java runtime as the starting point of the application.
String[] args: Provides a way to pass input parameters to the program from the command line, allowing for dynamic input at runtime.

11.
Array Length Property:
Arrays in Java have a built-in property called length which returns the number of elements in the array.
It is not a method, so you do not use parentheses when accessing it.

String Length Method:
In contrast, the String class has a method called length(), which returns the number of characters in the string.
It is a method, so you use parentheses when calling it.

In Java, arrays are objects, but their length property is a field (or attribute), not a method. Fields are accessed directly using their names, without parentheses. This design choice helps to differentiate between fields and methods clearly.

12.
In Java, String objects are immutable, meaning that once a String object is created, it cannot be changed. Any operations that seem to modify a String actually create a new String object.
If you need to manipulate individual characters in a String, converting it to a char[] allows you to do so directly, as char[] is mutable.

13.A for-each loop in Java, also known as the enhanced for loop, is a concise and convenient way to iterate over elements in a collection or array.

